initial commit of getting started migration (#5)
AdobeDocs/commerce-webapi: src/pages/get-started/web-api-functional-testing.md

---
title: Web API Functional Testing | Getting Started with Web APIs

> description: How to implement and run functional tests for your Magento API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: How to implement and run functional tests on Web APIs.
```

---

# Web API Functional Testing

> The Web [API](https://glossary.magento.com/api) testing framework allows you to test Magento [Web API](https://glossary.magento.com/web-api) from the client application point of view. The tests can be used with either REST or SOAP. The REST or SOAP [adapter](https://glossary.magento.com/adapter) that runs the tests is specified in PHPUnit configuration. See [How to Run the Tests](#how-to-run-the-tests) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Web [API](https://glossary.magento.com/api) testing framework allows you to test [Web APIs](https://glossary.magento.com/web-api) from the client application point of view. The tests can be used with either REST or SOAP. The REST or SOAP [adapter](https://glossary.magento.com/adapter) that runs the tests is specified in PHPUnit configuration. See [How to Run the Tests](#how-to-run-the-tests) for more information.
```

     *     )
     * );
     * </pre>
     * @param array $arguments
     * @param string|null $storeCode if store code not provided, default store code will be used
     * @param \Magento\Integration\Model\Integration|null $integration
     * @return array|string|int|float|bool
     */
    public function call($serviceInfo, $arguments = [], $storeCode = null, $integration = null);
}
```

## How to Run the Tests

### Prerequisites

1. Install the [PHP](https://glossary.magento.com/php) Soap [extension](https://glossary.magento.com/extension).

   Copy `php_soap.dll` or `php_soap.so` to your PHP extensions directory. Edit your `php.ini` file and enable the PHP Soap extension. Usually this means deleting the leading semi-colon in front of the extension. Then restart Apache.

   `extension=php_soap.dll`

1. Before running the functional tests you need to clear your [cache](https://glossary.magento.com/cache). Now you are ready to run the tests.

### Running the Tests

1. Copy `dev/tests/api-functional/phpunit_rest.xml.dist` and `phpunit_soap.xml.dist` to `dev/tests/api-functional/phpunit_rest.xml` and `phpunit_soap.xml`.

> 1. Define the Magento instance URL as a value of `TESTS_BASE_URL`, Test Webservice User as value of `TESTS_WEBSERVICE_USER` and Test Webservice API key as value of `TESTS_WEBSERVICE_APIKEY` in copied file i.e. `phpunit_rest.xml` or `phpunit_soap.xml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Define the Commerce instance URL as a value of `TESTS_BASE_URL`, Test Webservice User as value of `TESTS_WEBSERVICE_USER` and Test Webservice API key as value of `TESTS_WEBSERVICE_APIKEY` in copied file i.e. `phpunit_rest.xml` or `phpunit_soap.xml`.
```

1. Copy `dev/tests/api-functional/config/install-config-mysql.php.dist` to `dev/tests/api-functional/config/install-config-mysql.php`.

> 1. Configure your DB connection and install settings in `dev/tests/api-functional/config/install-config-mysql.php`. Specify the Magento database. The base URL to access this Magento instance must be the same specified in the `phpunit_rest.xml` or `phpunit_soap.xml` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Configure your DB connection and install settings in `dev/tests/api-functional/config/install-config-mysql.php`. Specify the Commerce database. The base URL to access this instance must be the same specified in the `phpunit_rest.xml` or `phpunit_soap.xml` file.
```
